okay so this video is going out to
friends on banjo hangout and also on
banjo Utah it's something almost never
do i'm doing a video blog and what
happened about a week ago was that I had
artificial nails acrylic nails put on my
index and middle fingers for the
purposes of improving my claw hammer
technique and I liked him so much that
went an added ring finger and thumb
although the thumb is a little bit small
to do some different things with my
guitar playing I used to take classical
lessons 25 years ago never really
perfected it because for one reason I
never had proper nails and so now with
these marvelous acrylic nails I thought
I'd explore how this changes the way i
play my instruments so i'm going to do a
little bit with the with five string
banjo claw hammer style or an
approximation of claw hammer and then
i'm going to try a couple of things on
on my guitars we'll see how it goes
okay so first thing I'm try here is just
kind of a cheating strum it's not claw
hammer it's not it's not certainly not
figure style is just to kind of thicken
things up with my thumb and in brushing
with the fingers in particular the
middle finger which I I never like to
show by its cell phone camera so let's
just try something
and you know it's a decent tone I mean
I'm really cheating I'm not playing the
banjo properly I'm just strumming it
like somebody who does know how to play
the banjo very well but with the nails
and what I tend to do when I strong as I
tend to brush down with the middle
finger nail and then brush up with the
thumb I kind of crispy and it has a pic
like effect and I'm not getting so much
flush on string which is a duller sound
so I'm really quite pleased with the
nails for that and this kind of playing
is really handy if I'm doing something
on the fly like when I'm singing at
school and let's say my claw hammer or
my finger picking is not fast enough to
do the particular song I want to do I
don't know well enough I can sort of
resort to this and it makes a decent
musical sound
okay so now we're going to try some
figure picking but without the pics and
when you're just trying to use the nail
now again the thumbnail is a bit short
i'm going to grow that out a bit and
then get them to build it up i need a
little bit more so that i'm actually
getting thumbnail on the string and
that's mostly flesh really getting the
nail unless i really dig it in there
which force is not practical for what
for playing at tempo so we'll try little
finger picking this is just a basic
Travis pick same chords as we did before
which are basically the chords to this
land is your land
okay and again you know a decent sound
but the thumbnail needs a little work
but really really like you that I'm
getting off the thumb and index finger
big improvement
okay so now again we're going to try
those those same chords or cd7 or D
basically the courts to this land is
your land and this time we're going to
try and claw hammer it
ok so now with the six string now I'm
going to engage all three of my fingers
on this a little something I do with
kindergarten it's just a teensy weensy
spider
you
and then if I'm just doing a pic strong
I get a really nice time
you
ok
in front of what we're going to do is a
little Travis picking again and this
time I'm going to use an old Harry
Chapin tune the intro anyway called
Corey's coming
you